[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: But I wanna call your
attention to those three flattening
functions we talked about earlier.
Just everybody tell me what
the three flattening functions are?
>> Speaker 2: MergeAll.
>> Speaker 3: ConcatAll.
>> Speaker 4: SwitchLatest
>> Jafar Husain: Right, so let's say, and
this happens all the time
in user interfaces,
I start an animation and
then another animation comes along.
What are the three options I have
when it comes that previous, so
let's actually imagine, spatially.
Can we get a white board going?
That would be super helpful right now.
We're about to talk about how broadly
applicable these three flattening patterns
are, mergeAll, concatAll,
and switchLatest.
And how we actually can use
them to coordinate animations.
Right, so let's just do a quick review
of how these flattening patterns work.
So I've got an observable
of observables here.
All right, here is the beginning
of the outer observable.
And within we have an inner observable,
another inner observable and
inner observable.
And mergeAll it's like
lanes merging on a highway.
So we get five, six, nine and 77.
ConcatAll, each one of these
shifts to the end, because
we always handle them sequentially,
top to bottom, left to right.
So we get this very long time period,
because we don't start for each over, and
therefore generating these results
until this is finished, and
that's why we shifted over here,
and so on and so forth.
We get this long observable.
And finally switchLatest where we
begin listening to an observable,
and then as soon as another
observable comes along, right?
We switch to it, and actually I got this
wrong, because there's no five here.
>> Jafar Husain: This is the right
observable for switchLatest.
>> Jafar Husain: Because we started
listening to an observable, and
before the second one came along,
this one came along,
sorry my time is a little bit off here.
But the point is this is the time axis.
And so another observable came
along before we even got five,
which means we only ended up with nine.
So if I was to visualize what these
operators would do two animations.
So let's say we started an animation
that animated a box from,
this is 0,0 to 100.
And all it looks like is it literally just
looks like this, it looks like [SOUND]
An empty observable, because all
it does is it starts animation and
then as soon as that animation is done,
it says uncompleted.
So, there's no data inside.
So, if we model our observables as
animations, we can do them this way.
And then by the time this reaches here,
one second will have elapsed.
So, let's say this is one
second of duration right here,
1000 milliseconds, okay?
To move 100 pixels.
So let's say we start that animation and
half way through,
we start an animation
that moves the y position
of the box up to 100, so
halfway through we start that animation.
So that's actually
an observable of observables,
the first observable like the first
inner observable that comes along,
starts the animation going this way but
then half a second later another inner
observable comes along that
starts pushing the y up this way.
Now I'm gonna draw a path for
this box, and
you guys are gonna tell me which
flattening pattern accomplishes that path.
>> Jafar Husain: It got half way and
it started moving up at the same time
as it's completing moving this way.
And then eventually it got to the top.
>> Speaker 5: MergeAll.
>> Jafar Husain: MergeAll, absolutely.
>> Jafar Husain: Right, because we're
listening to the current observer and
as soon as the next observable comes
along, we immediately start playing it,
and now we're pushing the box x and
y up at the same time,
till finally the x animation completes.
But we still have that half a second
left on the y animation and so
we can that's structure right there.
When you're coordinating animations,
you can either play them at the same time.
You can do the next thing,
which is,
>> Jafar Husain: Which
flattening pattern would this be?
>> Speaker 6: ConcatAll.
>> Jafar Husain: Concatall.
We fully finished the x animation
before we even start the y animation,
and so we get that.
And obviously,
by process of elimination, we get this.
All right, almost, technically it's
gonna look a little more like this.
>> Jafar Husain: We got halfway through
the x animation and we stopped.
And then we moved all
the way up the y animation.
When you dispose off the observable, you
freeze the animation, just right in place.
Now you can make your decision about
what that does when you dispose of
an observable, when you're designing the
API that wraps an animation as observable.
You could decide that when
somebody dispose off of it,
you would snap it back to
its original position.
You could also decide that you could
snap it to its end position, but
that's how I would do it, by default
anyway, if you dispose off the observable
that represent that animation,
it just freezes in it's place.
So this is a nice visual explanation
of how flattening patterns work and
how you can use them to
coordinate animations, right?
If you treat all your
animations as observables,
you can coordinate them just using
these three flattening patterns.
>> Jafar Husain: Does that make sense?
Okay, so I don't know how
much more we can cover today.
well, I think we're gonna cover the one
last thing which is saving the database.
which is at service time
that model changes,
we're gonna save the database effectively.
But I wanna ask you guys a question.
So before we turn the projector back on,
I wanna get your intuition about it.
So we've got this stream of
changes to the object, right?
And we're going to map it,
because this is always what happens,
we map it into attempts to
save the database, right?
So for every single time, we get a change
the object, we are going to issue a save
to the database command,
which is gonna return an observable.
So, right off the top, how many deep is
that collection, if for every change to
the object we create an observable, which
saves the current state to the database?
Two, right?
Because for
every little of those change record,
those arrays of change record,
we're substituting in
an observable that will cause us to
save the current state to the database.
which flattening pattern would
we use to flatten it on out?
What's the right behavior?
>> Speaker 4: Switch Latest.
>> Jafar Husain: Why Switch Latest?
>> Speaker 4: Cuz you
don't need the older data.
>> Jafar Husain: [LAUGH] Why would
you want to keep trying to save
old data, right?
You wouldn't,
you'd wanna save the latest data.
Absolutely, so not really that surprising,
in user interfaces mostly you
want to do the latest thing.
So I'm not necessarily gonna type that all
out now because every single example I've
shown you up till this point has
followed the exact same pattern.
Let's map over some event, let's issue
an asynchronous request, we'll take a look
and we'll see that, sure enough, we've
created a two-dimensional collection.
And then we'll choose
the right flattening pattern,
which on the UI 90% of
the time is switcLatest.
But I've just shown you that's for
asynchronous requests.
There's that last step,
which unfortunately,
I couldn't get to today, which is fine,
now I've saved to the database.
Maybe I wanna show some animation
that indicates that's complete.
Maybe I wanna fade a dialog box in and
says, Save right?
Then that's one more asynchronous
action to the chain and
you can bet that will involve going to
a three dimensional observable, right?
And then you wanna decide what flattening
pattern to use for that third level.
Maybe it's switch latest, or
maybe you want to smoothly show and
hide animations one after the other.
When you're doing animations,
switch latest is not always
the best pattern, right?
Do you wanna start an animation, then
flicker and switch to another animation?
I can tell you Netflix for XBox One
application, wrote a drop down list.
And we used the exact same
technique that you saw there.
But there was one extra step,
was that when we showed the results,
we didn't just flicker them in.
We animated them smoothly, fading in and
coming from the right hand side.
And then as soon as you clicked the key,
we faded out to the left hand side.
And then when the search results came in,
we faded it back out from the right
hand side and so on and so forth.
What we definitely didn't wanna do,
is start fading that animation in
from the right hand side and then have you
click and then immediately have a jerk and
fade out from the left hand side,
do you see what I'm saying?
So, maybe you wanna use concatAll to
make sure your animations are smooth.
So I'm sorry we didn't get to animations,
asynchronous requests and events, but
it's the same thing again and again.
You're going to map over a stream,
you're going to pick the right flattening
strategy, that's the hard part.
You learned how to flatten
streams with arrays.
The only question that now that you
have to deal with when you deal with
asynchronous programming, we've really
summed up the challenges involved in
asynchronous programming to one question,
which flattening do I use?
What's the right way to
coordinate this concurrency?
That's what we're doing here.
We're coordinating concurrency,
things happening at the same time.
That's all it is and it turns out
there's only three common patterns.
So when you look at asynchronous
programming from the right level,
when you take an half of a step back and
look at it,
sure enough it's actually really simple.
But if you walk all the way up to it and
look at these little callbacks, and
these handles, all of a sudden
it seems impossibly complex.
And so most problems are really
about zooming out and
finding the right level of
abstraction to tackle them.
And I suggest to you guys that
events as collections is the right
level of abstraction to tackle
asynchronous problems and user interfaces.
And so now it's up to you to go out and
master these skills,
drill them, try them in real applications.
Because I can tell you that everybody
at Netflix who learns this technology,
very often they come up to me
within two or three months,
because that's often how long it takes of
thinking about it and paying with it, and
say I've completely changed the way
that I write user interfaces.
So I hope the same for you.
Thanks very much.